# self-censorship-data-analysis

This project was created using IBM spss statistics software. To view the output or analysis, download the files from this directory.

The present study examines the relationship between an individual’s age and country of origin compared to their scores on the Willingness to Self-Censor Scale (WTSC) (Hayes et al., 2005). The WTSC measures an individual’s willingness to censor their opinion based on the situation they are in. The goal of the present study is to examine the WTSC scores of 460 people living in the United States (n = 231) and the United Kingdom (n = 229) and determine the effect of maturity and country of origin on their WTSC scores. Participant’s shyness will also be measured and used to test specific hypotheses regarding the WTSC. In a similar study done regarding the implications of WTSC scores, researchers hypothesized that individuals who score high on the WTSC will withhold their opinion more, especially in hostile situations (Hayes et al., 2005). Hayes and colleagues also hypothesized that WTSC scores will be independent of shyness and that the effect of climate of opinion will have a greater effect on those with higher WTSC scores (Hayes et al., 2005). In the present study it is being hypothesized that, first, individuals who are part of Generation X and Generation Y will have higher WTSC scores than individuals who are part of the Baby Boomer and Prebaby Boomer Generations. Second, there will not be a difference in WTSC scores between the Baby Boomer and Prebaby Boomer Generations. Third, there will not be a difference in WTSC scores between Generation X and Generation Y. Finally, after controlling for shyness, WTSC scores will still be related to which generation participants belong to.
